This project calculates the maximum number of guesses it takes to correctly identify a number in a given range starting at 0 when also given a number of chips that is reduced for each question answered with yes. You can also choose between 3 options. The first just returns the maximum number of questions to be asked. The second does the same as the first, but also displays the tables used to calculate the answer. The third option plays a game with the user in which the program guesses the user's chosen number within the range.

The program takes 3 integer inputs from the command line. The first input is the number of chips, the second is the end range number, the third is the option you want.

main: The program reads in the input from the command line. It then creates two double arrays. One holds the maximum number of guesses for each combination of chips and range within the given parameters. The other holds the relative number to guess for the current number of chips and range. The program then evaluates which option was input by the user to display the appropriate output.

calculateCost: The method takes the user's input chips and range value to create a double array. First, we need to set the base cases of the cost table. All cells in column 0 of the cost table can be set to 0 as the range is 0 and no questions need to be asked. Likewise, all cells in column 1 of the cost table can be set to 1 as the range is 1 and we only need to ask 1 question to solve. Then we set all the cells in row 1 of the cost table equal to its respective range value as if we have only one chip we will need to start at the lowest possible value and increase our guess by 1 each time. After establishing all the base cases we can move on to filling in the rest of the table. To find the value of a cell we need to compare the value in the cells directly above and above and to the left of the current cell. We take the maximum value from the two cells and add 1 to the value before assigning it to our current cell. We continue in this manner until the table is filled.

calculateGuess: The method takes the user's input chips and range value to create a double array, as well as the previously calculated cost double array. First, we need to set the base cases of the guess table. All cells in column 0 of the guess table can be set to 0 as the value of cost at the same indexes is 0. Likewise, all cells in column 1 of the guess table can be set to 1 as the value of cost at the same indexes is 1. Then we set all the cells in row of the guess table to 1 as that would mean we have one chip and can only increase our guess by 1 value at a time. After establishing all the base cases we can move on to filling in the rest of the table. To find the value of a cell we need to look at the value of cost with the same indexes and the value of cost directly to the left. If the values in the cells are different, then we set the value of guess at the indexes to 1. If the values in the cell are the same, then we set the value of guess at the indexes to 1 + the value in the guess table directly to the left of the current cell. We continue in this manner until the table is filled. 

guess: This is a recurrsive method that takes input for the question onumber, user's input number of chips and range, the previously calculated guess double array, and a left and right value. When this function is first called question = 0, left = 0, and right = range. First check to see if the current range is reduced to one number by subtracting right from left. If this is true, then the target number has been found and can be displayed. Otherwise, find the index of the current range by finding the value in the guess table associated with the current number of chips and current range. This index will then be added to the left value of the range to get the correct value. Then print out a statement to the user indicating the remaining number of chips and asking if the target number is less than the indicated value. If the user answers yes, then the chip number decreases by 1 and the right value is updated to be the left value + the index value – 1. If the user answers no, then the chip value is left alone and the left value is updated to be the previous left value + the index value. If the user answers anything other than yes or no, then a message indicating this will be displayed. The algorithm is then recursively called, increasing the question value by 1, and sending the updated chips, left, and right value, as well as the original range value and guess table.